 
Contributing to the Open Research Calendar
 
The point of this guide is to welcome new users and contributors to the Open Research Calendar. We welcome all contributions and we hope that these guidelines will make it as easy as possible to get involved.
 
The Open Research Calendar is a community managed tool. We therefore require that all contributors adhere to our Code of Conduct 
 
The name “Open Research Calendar” rather than “Open Science Calendar” was chosen so that we do not exclude members of the humanities and social sciences from our community. Please ensure that you use this preferred term in your contributions.
 
Contributing through GitHub
 
The Open Research Calendar uses Github to support collaborative and distributed working. If you are not familiar with Git and Github, you can use this guide to help you get going.
 
We welcome feedback and contributions on any aspect of the tool via our github issues and pull requests. We are particularly interested in extending the tool for global compatibility, including the management of timezones and incorporation of alternatives to Google. You can comment on an existing issue or open a new issue. Before you open a new issue, please check if any of our open issues covers your idea already.
 
Using the tool
 
There are many other ways to contribute to the Open Research Calendar:  
 
o   Submit an event: This tool relies on submissions from community members in order to facilitate communication and sharing of global open research events. You can submit an event by completing this form. Please check the calendar to see if your event is already listed before submitting to avoid duplication.
o   Share the calendar with the community. This tool aims to reach researchers across all walks of life and research fields. You can help us achieve this by sharing the calendar with your friends and colleagues, and encouraging them to follow @OpenResearchCal on Twitter.
o   Report suspicious events to administrators. This tool is community-led, and we trust the community to use it appropriately. However, as all tools are automated, the tool can be vulnerable to spam or predatory events. You can report any problematic events for removal by using this form.
o   Reuse the tool for your own community . We would love for you to re-use this tool for your own community. Our code and resources are shared under the GNU Public License.
o   Cite the tool. You can acknowledge the tool using the reference below (alphabetical author order, see CRediT statement)
Cassandra D Gould van Praag, Bradley J Kennedy, Alexandra Lautarescu, & Esther Plomp. (2020, October 20). Open Research Calendar. Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4109949
 
 
Getting in touch
 
The easiest way to get in touch is via our github issues. If you have an idea which is not discussed anywhere, you can open a new issue.
 
As our Twitter and email accounts are fully automated, please remember that you cannot contact us using these. You are welcome to say hi to the developers and maintainers of this tool via our personal twitter accounts (alphabetically): Cassandra Gould van Praag, Bradley Kennedy, Alexandra Lautarescu, Esther Plomp.
 
 
  
 
 

Code of conduct
 
The community is at the centre of the Open Research Calendar and all contributors are required to adhere to the following code of conduct. This code of conduct applies to all spaces related to the Open Research Calendar, including in-person interactions and online communications via any plaforms (including but not limited to: Github, Twitter, Slack).
 
The Open Research Calendar team is dedicated to a welcoming, respectful and harassment-free experience for everyone regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, ethnic or social origin, citizenship, nationality, physical appearance, body size, pregnancy, familial status, veteran status, membership of a national minority, property, education, socio-economic status, religion (or lack thereof), background, technological choices, or experience level. We do not tolerate behaviour that is disrespectful to our community members, or that excludes, intimidates, or causes discomfort to others. We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment by and/or of members of our community in any form. Harassment includes offensive (verbal or written) comments, sexual images, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing, sustained disruption of discussion, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.
 
We value the participation of every member in our community and want to ensure that all contributors have an enjoyable and fulfilling experience. Everyone who participates in the Open Research Calendar is expected to show respect and courtesy to other community members at all time.
 
The Open Research Calendar code of conduct includes (but is not limited to) the following community guidelines:
Be respectful of different viewpoints and experiences. Do not engage in homophobic, racist, transphobic, ageist, ableist, sexist, or otherwise exclusionary behaviour.
Use welcoming and inclusive language. Exclusionary comments or jokes, threats or violent language are not acceptable. Do not address others in an angry, intimidating, or demeaning manner. Be considerate of the ways the words you choose may impact others. Be patient and respectful of the fact that English is a second (or third or fourth!) language for some participants.
Do not harass people. Harassment includes unwanted physical contact, sexual attention, or repeated social contact. Know that consent is explicit, conscious and continuous—not implied. If you are unsure whether your behaviour towards another person is welcome, ask them. If someone tells you to stop, do so.
Respect the privacy and safety of others. Do not take photographs of others without their permission. Do not share other participant’s personal experiences without their express permission. Note that posting (or threatening to post) personally identifying information of others without their consent ("doxing") is a form of harassment.
Be considerate of others’ participation. Everyone should have an opportunity to be heard. In update sessions, please keep comments succinct so as to allow maximum engagement by all participants. Do not interrupt others on the basis of disagreement; hold such comments until they have finished speaking.
Don’t be a bystander. If you see something inappropriate happening, speak up. If you don't feel comfortable intervening but feel someone should, please feel free to ask a member of the core development team for support.
As an overriding general rule, please be intentional in your actions and humble in your mistakes.
All interactions should be professional regardless of platform: either online or in-person. See this explanation of the four social rules - no feigning surprise, no well-actually's, no back-seat driving, no subtle -isms - for further recommendations for inclusive behaviours.
Examples of unacceptable behaviour by Open Research Calendar community members include:
written or verbal comments which have the effect of excluding people on the basis of membership of any specific group
causing someone to fear for their safety, such as through stalking, following, or intimidation
violent threats or language directed against another person
the display of sexual or violent images
unwelcome sexual attention
non-consensual or unwelcome physical contact
sustained disruption of talks, events or communications
insults or put downs
sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist, or exclusionary jokes
excessive swearing
incitement to violence, suicide, or self-harm
continuing to initiate interaction (including photography or recording) with someone after being asked to stop
publication of private communication without consent
If any contributor violates these rules, the Open Research Calendar team will take any action they deem necessary, including asking contributors to discontinue their participation in the project.  
 
To report an issue, please contact any member of the core development team (alphabetically listed): Cassandra Gould van Praag , Bradley Kennedy, Alexandra Lautarescu, Esther Plomp. Reports may be discussed with other members of the core development team (unless there is a conflict of interest), and will be kept confidential. If you believe someone is in physical danger, please contact the appropriate emergency responders.
 
This code is adapted from the The Turing Way Code of Conduct and used under the creative commons attribution license. Suggestions for updates or clarifications to this document can be made by making pull requests to this document on Github.
 
 
 


